documentation/documentation-hub.md, before:

# Documentation Hub

This folder is the single source of truth for project documentation.

## Start Here

- Main documentation index: [index.md](index.md)
- Monorepo README: [../README.md](../README.md)
- Full Markdown catalog: [markdown-catalog.md](markdown-catalog.md)

## User Documentation

- Demo getting started: [user/demo/getting-started.md](user/demo/getting-started.md)
- Demo usage and persistence: [user/demo/usage-and-persistence.md](user/demo/usage-and-persistence.md)
- Luthor getting started: [user/luthor/getting-started.md](user/luthor/getting-started.md)
- Luthor presets and configuration: [user/luthor/presets-and-configuration.md](user/luthor/presets-and-configuration.md)
- Extensive editor guide: [user/luthor/extensive-editor.md](user/luthor/extensive-editor.md)
- Headless getting started: [user/headless/getting-started.md](user/headless/getting-started.md)
- Headless extensions and configuration: [user/headless/extensions-and-configuration.md](user/headless/extensions-and-configuration.md)
- Headless import/export: [user/headless/import-export.md](user/headless/import-export.md)
- Enhanced markdown quick start: [tutorials/enhanced-markdown-quick-start.md](tutorials/enhanced-markdown-quick-start.md)

## Developer Documentation

- Demo architecture: [developer/demo/architecture.md](developer/demo/architecture.md)
- Demo source file reference: [developer/demo/source-file-reference.md](developer/demo/source-file-reference.md)
- Demo maintainer notes: [developer/demo/maintainer-notes.md](developer/demo/maintainer-notes.md)
- Luthor architecture: [developer/luthor/architecture.md](developer/luthor/architecture.md)
- Luthor source file reference: [developer/luthor/source-file-reference.md](developer/luthor/source-file-reference.md)
- Luthor maintainer notes: [developer/luthor/maintainer-notes.md](developer/luthor/maintainer-notes.md)
- Headless architecture: [developer/headless/architecture.md](developer/headless/architecture.md)
- Headless source file reference: [developer/headless/source-file-reference.md](developer/headless/source-file-reference.md)
- Headless maintainer notes: [developer/headless/maintainer-notes.md](developer/headless/maintainer-notes.md)
- Contributor README map: [developer_notes/readme-map.md](developer_notes/readme-map.md)

## Package READMEs

- Root: [../README.md](../README.md)
- `@lyfie/luthor-headless`: [../packages/headless/README.md](../packages/headless/README.md)
- `@lyfie/luthor`: [../packages/luthor/README.md](../packages/luthor/README.md)

## Additional Package and Workspace Docs

- Demo app: [readmes/apps/demo-readme.md](readmes/apps/demo-readme.md)
- Luthor package architecture docs: [readmes/packages/luthor-docs/README.md](readmes/packages/luthor-docs/README.md)
- Preset docs: [readmes/presets/extensive-preset-readme.md](readmes/presets/extensive-preset-readme.md)
- Tooling docs:
  - [readmes/packages/eslint-config-readme.md](readmes/packages/eslint-config-readme.md)
  - [readmes/packages/typescript-config-readme.md](readmes/packages/typescript-config-readme.md)

Commit message:

feat: removing legacy support for HTML and Markdown
Latest Components are just not working with MD and HTML and it's causing data corruption - this is something that requires more work in future, not now.

JSONB output can still be converted to HTML/MD as required, it's just not going to be provided inhouse

documentation/documentation-hub.md, after:

# Documentation Hub

This folder is the single source of truth for project documentation.

## Start Here

- Main documentation index: [index.md](index.md)
- Monorepo README: [../README.md](../README.md)
- Full Markdown catalog: [markdown-catalog.md](markdown-catalog.md)

## User Documentation

- Demo getting started: [user/demo/getting-started.md](user/demo/getting-started.md)
- Demo usage and persistence: [user/demo/usage-and-persistence.md](user/demo/usage-and-persistence.md)
- Luthor getting started: [user/luthor/getting-started.md](user/luthor/getting-started.md)
- Luthor presets and configuration: [user/luthor/presets-and-configuration.md](user/luthor/presets-and-configuration.md)
- Extensive editor guide: [user/luthor/extensive-editor.md](user/luthor/extensive-editor.md)
- Headless getting started: [user/headless/getting-started.md](user/headless/getting-started.md)
- Headless extensions and configuration: [user/headless/extensions-and-configuration.md](user/headless/extensions-and-configuration.md)
- Headless import/export: [user/headless/import-export.md](user/headless/import-export.md)
- JSONB usage and persistence quick start: [user/demo/usage-and-persistence.md](user/demo/usage-and-persistence.md)

## Developer Documentation

- Demo architecture: [developer/demo/architecture.md](developer/demo/architecture.md)
- Demo source file reference: [developer/demo/source-file-reference.md](developer/demo/source-file-reference.md)
- Demo maintainer notes: [developer/demo/maintainer-notes.md](developer/demo/maintainer-notes.md)
- Luthor architecture: [developer/luthor/architecture.md](developer/luthor/architecture.md)
- Luthor source file reference: [developer/luthor/source-file-reference.md](developer/luthor/source-file-reference.md)
- Luthor maintainer notes: [developer/luthor/maintainer-notes.md](developer/luthor/maintainer-notes.md)
- Headless architecture: [developer/headless/architecture.md](developer/headless/architecture.md)
- Headless source file reference: [developer/headless/source-file-reference.md](developer/headless/source-file-reference.md)
- Headless maintainer notes: [developer/headless/maintainer-notes.md](developer/headless/maintainer-notes.md)
- Contributor README map: [developer_notes/readme-map.md](developer_notes/readme-map.md)

## Package READMEs

- Root: [../README.md](../README.md)
- `@lyfie/luthor-headless`: [../packages/headless/README.md](../packages/headless/README.md)
- `@lyfie/luthor`: [../packages/luthor/README.md](../packages/luthor/README.md)

## Additional Package and Workspace Docs

- Demo app: [readmes/apps/demo-readme.md](readmes/apps/demo-readme.md)
- Luthor package architecture docs: [readmes/packages/luthor-docs/README.md](readmes/packages/luthor-docs/README.md)
- Preset docs: [readmes/presets/extensive-preset-readme.md](readmes/presets/extensive-preset-readme.md)
- Tooling docs:
  - [readmes/packages/eslint-config-readme.md](readmes/packages/eslint-config-readme.md)
  - [readmes/packages/typescript-config-readme.md](readmes/packages/typescript-config-readme.md)
